Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server is a fully managed, production-ready relational database service in the Microsoft Cloud. It's based on the [MySQL Community Edition](https://www.mysql.com/products/community/) (available under the GPLv2 license) database engine, versions 5.6 (retired), 5.7, and 8.0. The service gives you granular control and flexibility over database management functions and configuration settings. It's generally available in various [Azure regions](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/flexible-server/overview#azure-regions).

Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server delivers:

- Zone-redundant and same-zone high availability (HA).
- The ability to schedule maintenance windows.
- Data protection by using automatic backups and point-in-time restore for up to 35 days.
- Automated patching and maintenance for the underlying hardware, operating system, and database engine to help keep the service secure and up to date.
- Predictable performance, by using inclusive pay-as-you-go pricing.
- Elastic scaling within seconds.
- Cost optimization controls with the low-cost Burstable compute tier and the ability to stop and start the server.
- Enterprise-grade security, compliance, and privacy to help protect sensitive data at rest and in motion.
- Monitoring and automation to simplify management for large-scale deployments.
- Multiple ways to get support.

These capabilities require no extra cost and almost no administration. They allow you to focus on rapid app development and accelerate your time to market rather than allocating time and resources to managing virtual machines and infrastructure. In addition, you can continue to develop your application with the open-source tools and platform of your choice to deliver the speed and efficiency that your business demands without learning new skills.

Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server also supports reserved instances. If your production workloads have predictable compute capacity requirements, using reserved instances can help you save costs.

## Architecture overview

The Flexible Server deployment option offers three compute tiers have different compute and memory capacities to support your database workloads:

- The _Burstable_ tier is best suited for low-cost development workloads and low-concurrency workloads that don't need full compute capacity continuously.
- The _General Purpose_ and _Business Critical_ tiers are better suited for production workloads that require high concurrency, scale, and predictable performance.

You can build your first app on a Burstable tier at a low cost and then adjust the scale to meet the needs of your solution. For details, see [Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server service tiers](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/flexible-server/concepts-compute-storage).

When you use a Flexible Server architecture, you can opt for high availability within a single availability zone or across multiple availability zones. Flexible servers are best suited for:

- Ease of deployment, simplified scaling, and low database-management overhead for backups, high availability, security, and monitoring.
- Application developments that require a community version of MySQL with better control and customizations.
- Production workloads with same-zone or zone-redundant high availability, along with managed maintenance windows.
- A simplified development experience.