## Azure Migrate


Azure Migrate is a service that helps you migrate from an on-premises environment to the cloud. Azure Migrate functions as a hub to help you manage the assessment and migration of your on-premises datacenter to Azure. It provides the following:

- **Unified migration platform**: A single portal to start, run, and track your migration to Azure.
- **Range of tools**: A range of tools for assessment and migration. Azure Migrate tools include Azure Migrate: Discovery and assessment and Azure Migrate: Server Migration. Azure Migrate also integrates with other Azure services and tools, and with independent software vendor (ISV) offerings.
- **Assessment and migration**: In the Azure Migrate hub, you can assess and migrate your on-premises infrastructure to Azure.

## Integrated tools

In addition to working with tools from ISVs, the Azure Migrate hub also includes the following tools to help with migration:

- **Azure Migrate: Discovery and assessment**. Discover and assess on-premises servers running on VMware, Hyper-V, and physical servers in preparation for migration to Azure.
- **Azure Migrate: Server Migration**. Migrate VMware VMs, Hyper-V VMs, physical servers, other virtualized servers, and public cloud VMs to Azure.
- **Data Migration Assistant**. Data Migration Assistant is a stand-alone tool to assess SQL Servers. It helps pinpoint potential problems blocking migration. It identifies unsupported features, new features that can benefit you after migration, and the right path for database migration.
- **Azure Database Migration Service**. Migrate on-premises databases to Azure VMs running SQL Server, Azure SQL Database, or SQL Managed Instances.
- **Azure App Service migration assistant**. Azure App Service migration assistant is a standalone tool to assess on-premises websites for migration to Azure App Service. Use Migration Assistant to migrate .NET and PHP web apps to Azure.
- **Azure Data Box**. Use Azure Data Box products to move large amounts of offline data to Azure.


