
The Domain Name System (DNS) is responsible for translating (resolving) a service name to an IP address. Azure DNS provides DNS hosting, resolution, and load balancing for your applications using the Microsoft Azure infrastructure.

Azure DNS supports both internet-facing DNS domains and private DNS zones, and provides the following services:

- **[Azure Public DNS](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/dns/public-dns-overview)** is a hosting service for DNS domains. By hosting your domains in Azure, you can manage your DNS records by using the same credentials, APIs, tools, and billing as your other Azure services.
    
- **[Azure Private DNS](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/dns/private-dns-overview)** is a DNS service for your virtual networks. Azure Private DNS manages and resolves domain names in the virtual network without the need to configure a custom DNS solution.
    
- **[Azure DNS Private Resolver](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/dns/dns-private-resolver-overview)** is a service that enables you to query Azure DNS private zones from an on-premises environment and vice versa without deploying VM based DNS servers.
    
- **[Azure Traffic Manager](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/traffic-manager/traffic-manager-overview)** is a DNS-based traffic load balancer. This service allows you to distribute traffic to your public facing applications across the global Azure regions.

## Benefits of Azure DNS

Azure DNS uses the scope and scale of Microsoft Azure to provide numerous benefits, including:

- Reliability and performance
- Security
- Ease of Use
- Customizable virtual networks
- Alias records

### Reliability and performance

DNS domains in Azure DNS are hosted on Azure's global network of DNS name servers, providing resiliency and high availability. Azure DNS uses anycast networking, so the closest available DNS server answers each DNS query, providing fast performance and high availability for your domain.

### Security

Azure DNS is based on Azure Resource Manager, which provides features such as:

- Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC) to control who has access to specific actions for your organization.
- Activity logs to monitor how a user in your organization modified a resource or to find an error when troubleshooting.
- Resource locking to lock a subscription, resource group, or resource. Locking prevents other users in your organization from accidentally deleting or modifying critical resources.

### Ease of use

Azure DNS can manage DNS records for your Azure services and provide DNS for your external resources as well. Azure DNS is integrated in the Azure portal and uses the same credentials, support contract, and billing as your other Azure services.

Because Azure DNS is running on Azure, it means you can manage your domains and records with the Azure portal, Azure PowerShell cmdlets, and the cross-platform Azure CLI. Applications that require automated DNS management can integrate with the service by using the REST API and SDKs.

### Customizable virtual networks with private domains

Azure DNS also supports private DNS domains. This feature allows you to use your own custom domain names in your private virtual networks, rather than being stuck with the Azure-provided names.

### Alias records

Azure DNS also supports alias record sets. You can use an alias record set to refer to an Azure resource, such as an Azure public IP address, an Azure Traffic Manager profile, or an Azure Content Delivery Network (CDN) endpoint. If the IP address of the underlying resource changes, the alias record set seamlessly updates itself during DNS resolution. The alias record set points to the service instance, and the service instance is associated with an IP address.

# Azure Private DNS zone

Azure Private DNS provides a reliable, secure DNS service to manage and resolve domain names in a virtual network without the need to add a custom DNS solution. By using private DNS zones, you can use your own custom domain names rather than the Azure-provided names available today.

The records contained in a private DNS zone aren't resolvable from the Internet. DNS resolution against a private DNS zone works only from virtual networks that are linked to it.

You can link a private DNS zone to one or more virtual networks by creating [virtual network links](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/dns/private-dns-virtual-network-links). You can also enable the [autoregistration](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/dns/private-dns-autoregistration) feature to automatically manage the life cycle of the DNS records for the virtual machines that get deployed in a virtual network.

## Private DNS zone resolution

Private DNS zones linked to a VNet are queried first when using the default DNS settings of a VNet. Azure provided DNS servers are queried next. However, if a [custom DNS server](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/manage-virtual-network#change-dns-servers) is defined in a VNet, then private DNS zones linked to that VNet are not automatically queried, because the custom settings override the name resolution order.

To enable custom DNS to resolve the private zone, you can use an [Azure DNS Private Resolver](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/dns/dns-private-resolver-overview) in a VNet linked to the private zone as described in [centralized DNS architecture](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/dns/private-resolver-architecture#centralized-dns-architecture). If the custom DNS is a virtual machine, configure a conditional forwarder to Azure DNS (168.63.129.16) for the private zone.