## Azure Advisor

Azure Advisor evaluates your Azure resources and makes recommendations to help improve reliability, security, and performance, achieve operational excellence, and reduce costs. Azure Advisor is designed to help you save time on cloud optimization. The recommendation service includes suggested actions you can take right away, postpone, or dismiss.

The recommendations are available via the Azure portal and the API, and you can set up notifications to alert you to new recommendations.

When you're in the Azure portal, the Advisor dashboard displays personalized recommendations for all your subscriptions. You can use filters to select recommendations for specific subscriptions, resource groups, or services. The recommendations are divided into five categories:

- **Reliability** is used to ensure and improve the continuity of your business-critical applications.
- **Security** is used to detect threats and vulnerabilities that might lead to security breaches.
- **Performance** is used to improve the speed of your applications.
- **Operational Excellence** is used to help you achieve process and workflow efficiency, resource manageability, and deployment best practices.
- **Cost** is used to optimize and reduce your overall Azure spending.

## Azure Service Health

Microsoft Azure provides a global cloud solution to help you manage your infrastructure needs, reach your customers, innovate, and adapt rapidly. Knowing the status of the global Azure infrastructure and your individual resources may seem like a daunting task. Azure Service Health helps you keep track of Azure resource, both your specifically deployed resources and the overall status of Azure. Azure service health does this by combining three different Azure services:

- **Azure Status** is a broad picture of the status of Azure globally. Azure status informs you of service outages in Azure on the Azure Status page. The page is a global view of the health of all Azure services across all Azure regions. It’s a good reference for incidents with widespread impact.
- **Service Health** provides a narrower view of Azure services and regions. It focuses on the Azure services and regions you're using. This is the best place to look for service impacting communications about outages, planned maintenance activities, and other health advisories because the authenticated Service Health experience knows which services and resources you currently use. You can even set up Service Health alerts to notify you when service issues, planned maintenance, or other changes may affect the Azure services and regions you use.
- **Resource Health** is a tailored view of your actual Azure resources. It provides information about the health of your individual cloud resources, such as a specific virtual machine instance. Using Azure Monitor, you can also configure alerts to notify you of availability changes to your cloud resources.